+++
categories = ["news"]
date = "2018-04-18T04:00:00+00:00"
description = "Hospital workers from Kingston and other southeastern Ontario communities will be demonstrating along with their counterparts at hospitals across the province Wednesday, April 18 at noon. The rallies are the second in a series of escalating actions that 75,000 hospital workers, who are without a contract, are taking part in this April. It is rare for hospital workers to “visibly” protest in this way around their own contract negotiations. CUPE, SEIU Healthcare and Unifor have formed an alliance and are mobilizing together to push Ontario hospitals to treat the hospital workers they represent with respect at the bargaining table. "
draft = true
tags = []
thumbnail = "/uploads/2018/04/26/together.jpg"
title = "Kingston, Southeastern Ontario hospital staff join province-wide rallies April 18"

+++
Hospital workers from Kingston and other southeastern Ontario  communities will be demonstrating along with their counterparts at  hospitals across the province Wednesday, April 18 at noon.

The rallies are the second in a series of escalating actions that  75,000 hospital workers, who are without a contract, are taking part in  this April. It is rare for hospital workers to “visibly” protest in this  way around their own contract negotiations.

CUPE, SEIU Healthcare and Unifor have formed an alliance and are  mobilizing together to push Ontario hospitals to treat the hospital  workers they represent with respect at the bargaining table.

The Kingston, Belleville, Quinte and Napanee hospital workers are  among hospital staff at more than 100 hospitals province-wide who are  seeking a fair contract without concessions. They are optimistic that a  new deal will be achieved this coming weekend with the resumption of  negotiations. For CUPE, it is the first time back at bargaining since  contract talks broke off late in September 2017.

“Workloads for hospital staff are difficult. They are exhausted.  These are the most productive hospital workers in the country, but their  employers came to bargaining seeking very serious concessions. Also,  the hospitals refuse to extend the wage increases they voluntarily  agreed to with lab employees, to the nursing, clerical and support staff  that we represent.

“Staff experience terrible violence at work. Yet, we have not been  able to deal with the issue of violence in the bargaining. We hope that  our members’ support will propel us into successful bargaining with the  hospitals April 21 and 22,” says Michael Hurley, CUPE’s Ontario Council  of Hospital Unions (OCHU/CUPE) president.

Last Wednesday, CUPE, SEIU and Unifor members at hospitals across  Ontario participated in their first workplace solidarity action. They  wore a small sticker saying, ‘Together for Respect’.

“Our members report they got a lot of attention from patients and  their families and other hospital staff, who, for the most part, are  very supportive of our efforts to be treated fairly and with respect,”  says Hurley.

Television and radio advertising, that highlights hospital workers’  commitment to patients and why the hospitals should give them greater  recognition for the contribution they make to quality patient care,  began airing on April 9.

More information about the tri-union ‘Together for Respect’ campaign can be found [here](http://cupehospitals.ca/news/unions-together-2018-03-28/).